---
title: "A human can always be told apart from a bot."
subtitle: With bots getting involved in our day to day activities its hard to tell a bot apart from a human. But you can always see the human if you look a bit closely.
image: /assets/images/chivalry2.jpg
layout: thought
---

Had a chance to try this game called Chivalry 2 from Torn Banner Studios. Lovely concept. As i checked it for the first time something caught my attention, it has nothing to do with the game in general. Its more related to how humans and robots are going to co-exist in future.

Yesterday, as i spent some time with it. I noticed these soldiers running, what you call them, knights. Swordsmen. Archers. Horsemen. Chivalry!

All of them running towards the opponents and swinging theirs arms to kill. Everyone unshakably focused on one and one thing only. Kill the opponents.! They kill one and swiftly position themself for another.

As it should be. Its a game, theres opponents and everybody is playing the game. Nothing yet grabbed my eye. 

Chivalry is a multiplayer game. So all the other players in the team. They are also humans. Sitting in different parts of the world. Each team is about the size of 25. With 2 teams playing against each other that makes a total of 50 people in a game.

There might be situations where 50 people arent available. And for these situations. Theres bots to occupy the slots.  

Yesterday, i checked. And one team had 3 humans and 22 bots and the other had 4 humans and 21 bots.

I decided to sit for sometime today as well. 

As i spent sometime today. I noticed something quite different. I saw a knight trying to pick apples and throw them in the blank air. He kept doing that one after the other. I saw a horseman going mad over a already dead knight and swinging the spear again and again on the ground. He kept at it for atleast 2mins. I saw a few knights picking up Stick Pony as the weapon of choice and roaring their way into the battle. 

Theres an option to do a "battlecry". Your player would shout. I heard those way more than i did yesterday. Once what happened, i attacked a same team player by mistake. And i saw this foot soldier standing doing nothing and starring at my player in such despair. I looked at this player for sometime and then moved. I looked back later and noticed he started moving as well. 

These immediately struck me. And i checked how many are bots. Guess what. All are humans. 25 humans in both the teams. 

Even in such a limited environment, small actions make a human stand out so much from a robot. Theres different amplitude of feelings, emotions and beliefs that makes up a human. Be it expressed as actions or words :) 

Its not very difficult to spot a human :)

